Hello and welcome back.
This lecture I want to provide a solution to our first challenge regarding the implementation of the
factory method pattern.
So let me bring up until J and create our project will just which will be titled factory method pattern
solution or something similar to that
so we'll see a Factory factory method design as just factory method solution.
Let's keep it shorter.
Sorry if you remember from our challenge this was going to use the factory method to create different
types of animals right.
So I'll start off by creating our product interface.
Basically in AI animal interface.
So let's go ahead and remove this.
So I started off creating my nano animal interface class.
This is going to be pretty basic it's just going to contain a simple method for speaking so we'll say
interface animal interface just to be clear you could deem it AI animals some people use certain common
conventions it's just going to contain a speak method don't take any parameters.
Pretty basic.
Again we're just demonstrating a design pattern the different product implementations are gonna be a
dog and a tiger.
So going to create a Dog class that implements this interface and it's going to just override our speak
method.
And like I said this the implementation of these methods don't have any real logic.
They're just going to display some output to the screen so that we're demonstrating our implementation
of our factory met pattern that we implemented it correctly.
So in this case we'll just say system dot out front line and we'll print out something like Doc says
pack pack whatever you want to do just something similar
OK.
And then one implement another class tiger this implements the animal interface again pretty straightforward.
We're just going to override implement our speak method.
This will help put some different data for a tiger.
So this will do something like
print out Tiger says Helen Dash.
OK.
So that's pretty straightforward.
We have them our product interface and then we implement that product interface with a couple of different
types.
Now we want to create our factory which will create the right instance based on a parameter.
Here I am going to create another file and I'm going to name I'm going to actually create a interface
for it just for good practice even though I mentioned you don't have to create an interface you can
just create the concrete creator.
So here I'm just gonna say animal
factory interface.
And again this may or may not you may or may not want to follow this.
It's good convention to always create interfaces we know that when we have programming to an interface
design strategy.
So here we're gonna say public we're gonna actually make this an abstract class it's a public abstract
class animal interface and we're actually going to have this method call an exception if we can't instantiate.
So it's a public string abstract and we're going to return an animal interface.
That's the reference type we want to return for the product.
The product interface we call this get animal type that's going to take a string of type.
And it's going to throw an exception if it can't create any type of object.
So maybe if you pass and no that's our simple factory interface now we're gonna have our concrete factory.
We can name this whatever you want I'll name it concrete factory.
And this is going to extend the astronaut class Animal Animal Factory interface.
It's going to have an override that's gonna be our factory method.
So we're going to override this get animal type.
Is just gonna be a public and it's gonna return again and animal interface so you get animal type
String type and it is gonna throw an exception
and you can have if statements in here or you can have Switch team.
I'm going to put a switch statement in just because we didn't have a statement in the previous example.
Here we're gonna just switch on type which is a string and we're gonna have cases for dark and if it's
a dark we just want to return a new doc
and if it's a tiger we'll actually want to break out of here.
And if it's a tiger we're going to return any tiger.
Otherwise the default will break out again and again default sometimes there's arguments to say this
should never be necessary but we are going to put a default in here.
In this case we're gonna throw new Exception in all something like animal type type
cannot be substantiated.
All right.
So pretty straightforward we implemented our new our new factory method in a single class that implements
our interface
last thing we need to do is create our client so that can demonstrate the use of the factory method.
We'll create a new class here and we'll just name a client.
And this will need to have a main method.
And it's going to maybe throw an exception just in case we don't create the thing correctly so we have.
So we have to declare it up here
so we'll say throws Exception all basic Java stuff.
And in this case I want to just display some information so I'm going to display some output such as
this is a factory method
so just some outputs of the user saying this is the factory pattern demo I then need to create some
animal and animal interface reference we'll call that the animal factory and this will actually call
a concrete class or a new concrete factory.
And remember in our examples we could get around this and I have to do this if we had a static method
in our concrete factory but for now we'll just keep it the way it is.
We have our animal factory created.
Now we want to actually create and call the factory method.
On that instance.
So we have to create a couple products in this case let's create a dog type first.
And this will be the animal interface.
I'll just name this dog type
and this will be instantiated by calling the Animal Factory target animal type bypassing that string
parameter.
So it's going to pass on a dog.
Once we have that instance created for the dog we want to test it.
So we call the speak method on it.
And that should display output which will confirm whether or not the correct instance was created.
Let's also create a tiger type to see if that works.
So again it's called animal interface.
And this time will say tiger type do the same thing called get animal but will pass and Tiger as our
string in the case statement should be executed correctly.
We can then call Tiger type speak which will verify whether or not the correct instance was created.
Let's also check our exception to see that the exception gets thrown when we try to credence that doesn't
exist.
So let's try creating a line which makes no sense because there is no lion type.
But the exceptions should be caught and thrown.
So let's say Animal Factory dog get animal type and in this case we'll put in life
and then we'll call lion type speak.
So what we should see is output when we run the program is we should see the speak method called for
the dog type through polymorphism who have the right instance because a dog is being created.
So we'll display output for whatever the speak was for dog.
We'll do the same for Tiger and then for lion it's going to.
An exception is going to be thrown and it's not going to work I also had to go back and change my switch
statement so that the switch statement could remove the brake statements I had the brakes in the earlier
I had to remove them because we're obviously doing a return we don't need to remove.
So let's compile this.
Try running this from the client.
And you'll notice that we get two out.
We get output for the dock.
So we created the right dock instance.
We can output for the tiger and then we get an exception thrown because there's no line that can be
created.
So this is the solution to your first challenge.
The source code will be you can download it and verify that you implemented the factory method correctly.
Thank you.